# Lab Report: Letterpress II - Presswork

#### Anna Smith

## Process Description

In this lab, we took the text blocks that we typeset last week and printed them on the press. First, we took four poems and imposed them onto a form so that we could print a whole page. We printed these on the opposite sides of pages printed last week, in order to set up the booklets that we'll be making. Each of the four people whose poems were on a given page produced 5-7 pages using the press. We then set the pages on a drying rack and dissassembled our text blocks, redistributing the sorts into their respective type cases. 

## Observations

I was initially nervous to work the press, because I was worried that I would mess up the printing and ruin the reverse side. In addition, I was a little anxious to see the first print, because I was a bit worried that I'd put a letter in my type backwards and not realized it. After the first print, this anxiety subsided though, and I was actually pretty excited to see the type that I had set actually printed. It was also interesting to see how the different typefaces on the page contrasted and worked with each other. There wasn't really any thought put into which poems would be together on a page, so the relationships between them wwere totally random. That being said, this sort of makes sense given that the texts themselves were generated randomly. 

When I got a chance to actually work the press, I realized that it would be pretty hard to wreck a page devastatingly enough to render it unusable. It was hard to really mess up, but it was also kind of hard to use, or at least tricky to get the hang of. I didn't really get the rhythm of the pedal down, and the press kept stalling halfway through. That said, this definitely feels like something that gets easier with time and practice, and I could imagine getting into a pretty good rhythm if I had a lot of pages of text to print. 

Re-sorting the type at the end of the lab was satisfying and a bit disappointing at the same time. This was a relatively short piece of text, so it makes me think about what printers dissembling large pages of text must have felt. It's satisfying in a sense that you're done with a project, but also kind of sad to take apart something that you spent a good amount of time putting together. 

## Analysis

The fact that we arranged four unrelated and uniquely typeset pieces of text on one sheet of paper made me think about how a viewer would potentially read each one differently depending on the nuances of the type itself. We read this week that "The type in _Walker's Appeal_ makes the author's outrage not just visible but also audible – readers can virtually hear his riding voice and anger in his text's italics, capitalized words, and multiple exclamation points" (Dinius 56). Our pieces of text didn't necessarily use punctuation to accentuate any specific points, but I feel that the juxtaposition of such drastically varying fonts will cause each poem to be read in a different way. 

In Emily Faithfull's article "Women Compositors," she states that "The difference between a good printer and a bad one, is rather in the quality of mind and the care applied to the work, than in the knowledge of the work itself" (Faithfull 39). Having gone through the process of printing from start to finish, I couldn't agree more with this statement. All throughout this process, I found that I made the most mistakes when I wasn't paying close attention to what I was doing. When it came to actually printing the pieces, care had to be put into set-up, running the press, and even putting the printed papers down. There was little room for distraction if you wanted to get the job done well. 

This exercise made me think about how distanced we as a society have become from this technology. Though the letterpress was undeniably a groundbreaking innovation when it was first implemented, it's now so rare that the only time most people will encounter it (if at all) is in a class. While I do know of a few functioning letterpress facilities, such as Union Press in Somerville, this media is far from making a comeback. Not to say that it necessarily should – as other technologies have naturally been created that streamline the printing process and make language more accessible than ever before. On top of that, the accessibility of digital texts further renders this technology obselete. This makes me think about Leah Price's comments in the chapter "The Real Life of Books" in regards to readers' tendencies to borrow and not own. She states that "Even readers who buy a book outright often do so in the expectation that they'll own it only temporarily" (Price 62-62). The physicality of printed media givves a stronger sense of ownership than a digital text. As people want to carry less and consolidate more, print becomes a less appealing method of reading than digital formats. 