# Lab Report: Illuminating the Text

#### Anna Smith

## Process Description

For this lab, we transcribed texts by hand in candlelight. When we walked into the class, there were candles on the table, as well as copies of a handwritten text and writing utensils. We sat two people per candle and attempted to rewrite the handwritten texts that were in front of us. After a period of 20 minutes or so, we regrouped and discussed the challenges of the activity, addressing which texts were hardest and why. 

## Observations

When I first started transcribing my piece, I was surprised at how easy it was to read. I didn't really have any trouble reading the text, and I moved relatively quickly compared to other people in the room who were dealing with different pieces of writing. I even felt that I was doing something wrong at a few points, as I was filling up the paper rather quickly while others seemed to be taking much more time. When we regrouped and I learned that we each had different texts, it made sense that I had an easier time with my text simply because it was much less dense than some of the other specimens. My piece, a lecture by Frederick Douglass, had a lot of space between lines and was written in a looser more legible form of cursive than the pieces by Edgar Allan Poe or Virginia Woolf. 

When I saw the "Illuminating the Text" lab listed in the class schedule, I assumed we would be doing something with illustration since we had just read the pieces on Blake's _The Marriage of Heaven and Hell_, which dealt with printing techniques mean to combine text and image. Also, the chapter was titled "Image" so I was fairly surprised to walk into the room and see that the "Illumination" aspect of the lab would deal with working by candlelight. Thinking back, I'm not sure that I've ever done anything like this even for the novelty of it. When the power went out and we lived by candlelight, I don't think I ever decided that would be a good time to read or write something. I used to read in bed by a keychain flashlight after "lights out" as a kid, but even that feels like a better source of light than candles. It was frustrating to have the light flicker every time that I breathed, especially since we were sharing candles and I didn't want to drive my partner crazy. 

## Analysis

This may sound kind of odd, but I've felt kind of distanced from the handwritten tradition lately, as I've been leaning on my computer more and more. I used to learn better by taking down notes by hand, but this past year I've mostly eschewed notebooks for the notes app. This process, therefore, jarred me back into writing as it was not a familiar way for me to write by hand in the first place. In the historical piece we read about William Blake, it states:
>The tools of drawing and sketching, though, freed him to think in new ways, to unite invention and execution in ways defeated by conventional printmaking. Moreover, the idea that an artist's first and spontaneous thoughts are most valuable because they are closest to the original creative spark, often obliterated by high finishing, had become very popular in the late eighteenth century, creating a taste for drawings and sketches and motivating printmakers to invent techniques to reproduce them in facsimile and to simulate their various textures.

The value of drawing and sketching, as described here, stood out to me mostly because I agree. As an artist and designer, I feel that sometimes my preliminary sketches reflect my thoughts more closely, and like writing by hand has sort of a similar effect. Even when you're writing with a pencil and have the capability to erase, there are still ghosts of those initial imprints left. William Blake's printing methods allow him to capture his fleeting initial thoughts, transcribing with paper and pen captures this as well. 

In relation to this lab, having to hand-transcribe an existing text meant that all of our errors were captured, at least before they were erased. In addition, given that we were transcribing by candlelight, it seemed to be the consensus that most of us had a good number of errors captured on our transcribed papers. I suppose these aren't necessarily marks of a "creative spark," but they do indicate my initial thoughts in a way that typed or typeset text would not. While my piece in particular was fairly easy to decipher and I got through it relatively quickly, other texts in the classroom were not as easy to transcribe. There was one by (I believe it was) Virginia Woolf which contained a lot of shorthand, and I'm sure this added another level of difficulty to the act of transcription. I feel that the "ghosts" of the errors in transcribing the shorthand could be telling in a way that they indicate the readers' instinctive interpretations of this shorthand, which could be shaped by a variety of factors.

To be honest, I struggled a bit to fit this chapter's readings in with the activity. I suppose it does bring up the question of comparing Blake's hand-etched books with, say, a printed codex. When people are typesetting (be that with a letterpress machine or digital software) there is a sense of refinement in the finished product. I thought the idea that artist books "disrupt our treatment of the book as a transparent container for literary and aesthetic 'content' and engage its material form in the work's meaning" (Borsuk 113) was particularly interesting, and I feel that it relates to this exercise in a sense that it disrupted our treatment of text in general. Reading by candlelight was a different way to engage with a  text than normal, as was the act of transcription vs. just reading to absorb. I suppose the experience as a whole could be considered an "art book" in that it was sort of a "space-time sequence" (143) as defined by Mallarmé. We did engage with a piece of text in a different way than normal, "illuminating" the text both literally and through the act of recreating it in our own hand. 
