# Lab Report: Multisensory Reading

#### Anna Smith

## Process Description

For this lab, we were tasked with examining 6 different 3d prints of historical books for the blind without looking at what these books pages consisted of. In groups of 3, we spent 3 minutes at each "station" which consisted of a 3D printed page hidden underneath a type tray. We touched each page, attempting to make out any words that we could. At the end of the exercise, we looked at each of the 3D prints and reflected on our experience trying to decipher them.

## Observations

Going into this exercise, I expected to be able to decipher at least a few words. That being said, I was really surprised at how difficult it was to understand anything on the pages, especially given that these models were roughly twice the size as the original pages. I wonder if part of this is due to the quality of the prints themselves. With several of the prints, the letters were just too complicated for my fingers to pick anything up. The moon type one was actually the easiest to pick up the shapes of, but because I'm not familiar with this coded system, I wasn't able to get anything out of it. Admittedly, I don't have any prior experience with written systems like this, so I'm not sensitive to the subtleties of the actual shapes of the text. I'm sure someone who has trained themselves to read this way would have an easier time, but my lack of experience definitely made this difficult.

In addition to struggling with the text itself, the illustrations were definitely a curveball. I didn't really expect to encounter any, so whenever my fingers felt negative space it was sort of jarring. The eclipse diagram was particularly surprising, because my group was really sure that it was a sort of beach scene. Language is standardized, but images are not, so this makes me wonder how someone would be expected to figure out the content of this diagram with no context. If there were text preceding the diagram that explained it a bit more, I could imagine it making a little more sense, but as a standalone image I feel that it would be challenging to piece together the meaning. This makes me wonder if a diagram like this would be intended to accompany a verbal explanation, like a lesson from a teacher. 

## Analysis
Sara Hendren's article on assistive technology made me think about the ways that our society has been built up around the notion of an "ideal" human body. Then, when it comes to technologies that are created for people outside of this specific subset, there's often a learning gap that makes it difficult for people to use these technologies without additional training. The tongue-driven wheelchair project Hendren mentions is interesting in its attempts to work around this issue in a roundabout way: "Sometimes heightened functionality is about reconsidering typical adaptations entirely, inverting the expected sensory mechanism. One could easily picture this system in general use for tasks, like gaming, that typically require hand control." (Hendren). Here, a highly specialized mechanism can be imagined in application to other, more everyday tasks. This way of thinking seems sort of roundabout, but it could be easily applied to other tasks like reading. While adapting able person-specific technologies for those with disabilities most often creates a divide that prevents the technology from being universally utilized, rethinking the "default versions" of technologies to encompass a wider subset of human beings eliminates that divide. The Boston line type that we interacted with in class was interesting because, though it was fairly universal as it could be interpreted by sighted or blind users, there was a degree of difficulty involved in reading it solely by touch. This idea is touched upon in "The Universal Page," which states "sighted designers also have a bad habit of 'talking to the fingers in the language of the eyes.'" Here, the prioritization of the ideal, able-bodied human is definitely present. Perhaps this is an instance where it would be more beneficial to design in the opposite direction: modifying a specialized technology to accomodate able-bodied users rather than creating alternate versions of technologies to accomodate users with disabilities.

"The End of Books" was interesting in light of this exercise because it made me think about whether we actually _should_ rethink the structure of books, or at least broaden our definition of what a book can be. The ties to the "book" in its widely accepted form feel sentimental at times, or at least resistant to a drastic shift in a familiar media. A line that stood out to me in "The End of Books" was "Hearers will not regret the time when they were readers; with eyes unwearied, with countenances refreshed, their air of careless freedom will witness to the benefits of the contemplative life" (Uzanne). Not only could a shift in the form of books make life easier for those who currently use them, but it could potentially expand that audience. Though it is likely impossible to create the "perfect" media, at least in terms of accessibility, modern technology should not be looked down upon as inferior to the traditional codex. Multisensory reading, whether that involves touch or sound, opens up a space for a larger number of readers to enjoy the act of reading. Technologies such as audiobooks or books that are felt tend to be considered "lesser than" the printed codex, and I feel that this is partly where the core issue lies. As Uzanne states, "The art of being moved by the wit, the gayety, and the thought of others must soon demand greater facilities" and if this means reconsidering the limitations that we place on what a "book" can be, maybe that's for the best. 

The anxieties that surround the sanctity of the traditional book are mentioned in "The Universal Page" as well: 
> "Andrew’s fears about losing his visual relationship to books resembles the anxieties that sighted people have about the demise of print in the digital age. As more and more people read on screens, there’s an old guard of folks bemoaning these new forms of reading as inferior. These critics believe that the trusty old technology of the book will always be the superior vehicle for ideas" (The Universal Page).

Technology always has and always will evolve and iterate upon itself. Resistence to this growth is not only futile but counterproductive. In class, when we shifted the conversation from the books designed for blind readers to audiobooks, I was struck by the idea that there's a resistance to considering listening to be "reading." This class has really made me think about what "reading" is, and I've gravitated more and more toward the conclusion that the most important part about reading is that language is being digested in some way. "The Universal Page" states that "Many media scholars and book historians make the point that reading doesn’t happen in the eyes, or the ears, or the fingers. It happens in the brain." While form can be important in certain cases, I feel that if eschewing form means a wider audience can enjoy reading, that should be a predominant consideration.