# Lab Report: Markdown and Github

#### Anna Smith

## Process Description


In this lab, we set up individual GitHub accounts, connected to the class's GitHub page, and from there we learned the basics of markdown by experimenting with this lab report. We went through each process step-by-step, flagging our laptops if we ran into any pitfalls. Once everyone was established in the GitHub program, we individually experimented with markdown to learn and practice the syntax. I downloaded the MacDown program to help with this, and then set up a blank file in which I practiced various elements of Markdown. Specifically, I embedded images, created bulleted and numbered lists, adjusted text to bold and italic, and played around with establishing hierarchy with the different heading styles.


## Observations

Very early in the setup instruction, I spent way too much time trying to download the desktop version of GitHub and missed what the rest of the class was doing. I got very lost very quickly, and realized that I would have to pay much closer attention if I was going to get anywhere with this program. I was also initially nervous about the act of committing and pushing a file to the cloud portion of GitHub. It felt really final and I was worried that I would mess something up or post in the wrong place. This changed once I had committed my reading prep to the GitHub, but the day we actually did the lab I was very careful to avoid clicking the "push origin" button.

Compared to using GitHub, though, I felt fairly comfortable with markdown as I recognized some of the syntax from past experiences building basic blogs and websites. I could actually see myself using this system to write in the future, because being able to adjust formatting without breaking my stream of thinking seems like a much more natural way to get thoughts down. 


## Analysis

In _What We Talk About When We Talk About Books_ Lisa Gitelman states that “The success of all media depends at some level on inattention or “blindness” to the media technologies themselves” (6). This GitHub and markdown exercise shifted my perspective, and I was suddenly thinking about how to use the media itself rather than just focusing on what to write. In a sense, I regained sight of the media that I was using, and that was a jarring experience compared to opening a notebook or Microsoft Word and jotting down my thoughts. That being said, I hope that I do become more "blind" to the media, because I feel that both GitHub and markdown will be useful tools even once this class  is over.

Something else that stood out to me during this exercise was my discomfort with committing and pushing files to GitHub, which I think has to do with the fear of cataloguing something that wasn't necessarily refined or final. This made me think of how, in _Phaedrus_, Plato argues against "sowing words which can neither speak for themselves nor teach the truth adequately to others." Though he meant this in terms of written language as a whole, I feel that it connects tangentially to the idea of chronicling unfinished versions of a piece of writing (or code, or the various ways in which you can use GitHub). Plato was worried that words couldn't speak for themselves, but even then he was likely referring to cleaned up, "final draft" words when he made this argument. What would he think about the idea of chronicling the rough thoughts and revisions that lead to these words? There are obviously practical, very beneficial affordances to this technology in terms of reviewing and revising drafts, but it does make me think about how an edited text probably speaks for itself a little better than the unrefined blueprints from which it came. 

Following our conversation in Monday's class, I couldn't help but think about the ways in which GitHub repositories can be considered books. In terms of Ken Liu's article, I feel that this program could most closely be associated with the Quatzolis, whose "books" consist of channels worn in their copper chambers through years and years of generating and regenerating steam. In a way, GitHub's stores of repositories can be compared to these grooves of continued erosion, as both are reformed and revised time after time until they reach their final forms. However, the Quatzolis were able to "separate thought from writing" thereby leaving "a record that is free of blemishes and thoughts that would have made their descendants shudder." GitHub repositories keep track of all (possibly shudder-inducing at times) versions of finished work. Despite my self-consciousness around publishing unfinished work, though, I feel that this was a very valuable exercise and I'm interested in learning more about this program and language.