# Lab Report: Book Binding

#### Anna Smith

## Process Description

For this lab, we took the pages of twitterbot poems that we printed in the letterpress portion of this class and bound them into a chapbook. The first step was to take the pages and cover and fold them neatly with the bone folder. We then nested the pages together and marked out 5 (almost) equidistant spots along the fold of the innermost folio. We placed the pages in the cradle and pierced them with the awl at the points we marked to create the sewing stations. Finally, we used a needle and wax thread to sew the stations in a specific pattern, and once we tied and cut the thread, we were done.

## Observations

This lab was exciting because it was the final step in our twitterbot letterpress lab series, which meant that we could bring our letterpressed chapbooks home after this. Even in my design classes, it's rare that I actually end up with a physical artifact from class and not just a digital draft of a physical piece, so it's always nice to have something to show for the work I've done. The only other time I used a letterpress machine, I operated the press but didn't actually get to set any type. So being able to say that I participated in some way in every step of the making of this chapbook (at least for my specific poem) is pretty cool. Additionally, I've never bound a book using the saddle stitch technique, so I'm glad that I can add it to my repertoire. 

I'm usually pretty hesitant about any sort of craft that involves sewing since I'm notoriously bad at it, but I was pleasantly surprised that the sewing involved in this process was actually pretty simple. The diagram seemed a bit complicated at first glance, but it was actually really simple to figure out and also to execute. This is definitely a lot less messy than perfect binding, so I could definitely see myself using it for some sort of project outside of class. This class has given me a new interest in artist books, and I'm glad to have learned some new techniques that I could potentially use to create these types of books moving forward. 

## Analysis

An idea in Charles W. Chestnutt's "Baxter's Procrustes" that stood out to me was "The smaller the edition, the greater the collector’s eagerness to acquire a copy" (Chestnutt 793). The chapbook that we created is a very small, very exclusive run, so what stops it from being a "collector's item" in this sense? I suppose this is a bit of an "apples to oranges" comparison, as our chapbooks aren't quite as artfully and luxuriantly produced as the Procrustes, but there is still something to be said for an artifact that is produced by hand in small quantities. Despite the simple binding, our chapbooks are unique in that they were created by twitterbots created by individuals, in most cases based on previous work. There is an iterative nature to these chapbooks that is truly one of a kind, and though they may not "make sense" as a complete volume, there will never be another book quite like these (except, of course, from future Technologies of Text classes). The value of these books lies in their uniqueness of content, and, as Chestnutt states "To the true collector, a book is a work of art, of which the contents are no more important than the words of an opera" (792). So uniqueness aside, these text will never be "valuable" in teh same way that the Procrustes is, as their production value is fairly minimal. They are, however, valuable when you factor in their exclusivity alone. 

The compact size of the texts that we bound made me think of Jane Austen's reflections on book size: 
> Ladies who read those enormous great stupid thick quarto volumes which one always sees in the breakfast parlour there must be acquainted with everything in the world. I detest a quarto. Capt. Pasley's book is too good for their society. They will not understand a man who condenses his thoughts into an octavo. 

She basically scoffs at the assumption that large, weighty tomes are superior to smaller volumes, and suggests that "condensed thoughts" are just as meaningful as those that are stretched out over many pages. Our chapbooks consist of eight total pages, amounting to just 16 poems. Each poem has a lot of substance in terms of the processes that were involved in their creation, though. With this in mind, I would argue that grounding the chapbook in the context of its complex background increases its substantive value considerably. Though there are elements of randomization that prevent a reader from being able to pull any real "meaning" out of this text, the work that went into generating each poem creates a different sort of condensed meaning.

Finally, when compared to Leah Price's chapter "Interleaf: Please Lay Flat," the chapbook we created is much easier to read, but even harder to get meaning out of. While we struggled to absorb Price's thoughts because of the unconventional formatting, outside readers would struggle to gain a sense of meaning from our chapbooks due to the nonsensical content. This "form vs. content" notion is something I've thought about often in this class. Is a book a book because of the way it's made or because of what it's made of? With that in mind, which text is more traditional in a "book" sense–our nonsensical chapbooks, or Price's read-across-the-gutter chapter? Format-wise, our chapbooks make me think of many modern poetry books that I've seen, which are usually small with a lot of negative space and relatively short blocks of text. I think the biggest thing standing in the way of our chapbooks being taken seriously as books is, as I mentioned before, context. If we were to insert a paragraph or two of background information in addition to the "Twitterbot Poems" title, I feel like it wouldn't be unreasonable to imagine a book like this selling at a kitschy bookstore (or maybe in the novelty section of Urban Outfitters). Despite whether they're traditional or not, there is definitely something quirky and unique about these texts that I feel is worth noting.