# Lab Report: Letterpress 1: Composition

#### Anna Smith

## Process Description

For this lab, we took a poem that out Twitter bots generated and began to set it with movable type. My poem, based on T. S. Eliot's "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock," read:
>Do I dare
>Frighten the ocean?
>In March there is time
>For yellow smoke and redactions which the blink of an eye will undo. 

First, we went over the different tools involved with the process and learned how to use them. We each got a composing stick and set them all to fit the (I believe it was 20 point) leading. Then, we each chose a typeface and began to actually set our poems. I chose Futura Bold initially, then switched to Futura Regular when I realized the bold font didn't have any k's. For the rest of the lab, we just worked on setting as much of our poems as we could in the time frame, and then transferred them all to a galley so that we could finish them up and print from them next week. Along the way, I had to make some adjustments to my poem, including breaking lines a bit differently than I had initially intended and removing the word "yellow" as it made the line too long to fit. 

## Observations

When we first started to actually typeset our poems, I ran into a bit of a roadblock early on because, as previously mentioned, I realized that the font I had chosen to use (24 pt Futura Bold) had none of the letter "k," and I needed 2 of these. I hadn't gotten too far into my poem, though, so I didn't lose too much when I switched to Futura regular. This made me think of how frustrating it must have been for printers to work on a piece and then run out of a certain letter. I had only set one line of my text, so I can't even imagine how frustrating it would be to get through the majority of a page of text and then run into this same issue. Even when it happened, I considered whether it would be easier to just use regular Futura for the words that had k's in them, but at the end of the day it made more sense to just start over since I wasn't too far along.

The act of typesetting was definitely slow at first as I am not familiar with the setup of the type case, but once I memorized where the more common letters were, it began to go somewhat quickly. I was actually surprised with how quickly it started to go. I think the biggest consistent issue I had was finding the right sized spacers to fill in at the ends of the lines. Also, I'm not sure if I had set my composing stick to be a little bit too short, but for some reason I had trouble fitting some of the leading bars in between lines of text. Overall, despite the slowness of familiarizing myself with the type case and the process of finding the right spacers, I felt fairly comfortable with the process by the end of the class.

Disaster nearly struck right at the end of the exercise, though. I mentioned earlier that I had some trouble fitting the leading bars in, and I think I jarred the composing stick while trying to fit in the last piece of leading. Three lines of type went flying across the table, and for a second I really thought that I was going to have to scrap all the work I had done and try to catch up in the next class. Luckily though, the text pieces fell on the table in lines that were mostly still in the right order, so I was able to carefully put them back in the composing stick without losing all of the progress that I made that day. Though I resolved the problem in the end, this was DEFINITELY not an ideal situation, and I hope to save myself that headache in the future by being more careful and not trying to fill the composing stick with as many lines of type.

## Analysis

This lab was interesting to conduct after reading Johannes Trithemius's "In Praise of Scribes." While he was concerned about printing being a "slothly" profession that requires less diligence than transcribing texts by hand, I, a student in 2019, found this process to be tedious and challenging compared to typing. Granted, I don't have any training, and I'm sure if I were to devote more time to the practice it would become easier. That being said, it's simply not a skill that many people are literate in nowadays, and that makes it feel like a clunky and laborious process. I can't even imagine how Trithemius would react to the digitization of text. The divide between thought and text has been reduced dramatically since the time of scribes, and one can get their thoughts down in writing almost as soon as they produce those thoughts. While Trithemius viewed printing as relatively quick (and therefore lazy), having to think about where the sorts are in the type case feels like a major hindrance compared to banging out a piece of writing on a keyboard.

Having a background in graphic design and typography, I was really excited for this lab. When I first took a survey of the typefaces that were available, I almost immediately decided that I wanted to use Futura to set my piece, and was a bit dismayed when I realized that the Futura Bold case had no k's. Luckily, Futura Regular was available (and complete), but my strong compulsion toward this typeface in general made me think about the article "How Typeface Influences the Way We Read and Think" by Chris Gayomali. In this piece, Gayomali states "Words hold power. But the aesthetic manner in which those words are presented can affect the way we read, and the way we think about the information presented." Why, then, was I so set on using Futura? Would my passage have come across differently if it were set in a stodgier serif font? I wouldn't have used Futura to typeset, say, a 5 page essay. However, I felt that the brevity and the whimsy of the bot-generated piece of text that I was typesetting was actually conducive to this geometric yet quirky typeface, which originated with the Bauhaus and has since made frequent appearances in indie cinema. In this instance, type absolutely influenced my line of thinking, and almost subconsciously dictated the choices that I made while typesetting my text. 

Watching Stephen Fry's *The Machine That Made Us* was helpful to contextualize that, this exercise we view today as a novelty, was truly a revolutionary advancement. So much of our everyday life revolves around print, and the introduction of movable type made this all possible. Though it's been proven that Gutenberg was not actually the first in the world to introduce this technique, his impact on printing as we know it cannot be overstated. The fact that so little is known about this man is shocking, but it's really no different than Sarah Werner's revelations about women having an impact on the printing trade, and very rarely being recognized for it. I think my main point here is that, as important as printing has been for the evolution of text, it does allow for authors and makers to be further distanced from their creations. Though I didn't agree with a lot of Trithemius's points, there is something to the notion that mechanization removes the personal hand from a process. And this isn't necessarily good or bad, but it is an inevitable byproduct of technological advancement. In today's digital world, there is even more text out there for authors and makers to get buried in. Our Twitter bots, for example, are just a blip in the expanse of the Internet - being set in type and printed into a booklet is probably the most attention they'll ever see. However, the act of taking a very modern piece of digitally created text (such as a randomly generated Twitter bot) and converting it into physical type really makes you think about how, without the developments like movable type, we wouldn't be making Twitter bots at all. 