# Reading Prep: CHAPTER TWO

#### Anna Smith

## Questions or Observations

1. Octavia Butler’s “Speech Sounds” illustrates the horrors of a world without language, or more accurately, a world in which few possess the ability to produce and comprehend language. This calls into question the social implications of literacy, as it creates a hierarchical society where the literate rank the highest. From our social vantage point, this feels like a regression into the past, which Annette Vee emphasizes when she states that “writing was once a specialized skill with a high technical bar for entry—one needed to know how to prepare parchment, make ink, maintain writing instruments, or bind pages—it is now an expected skill for all members of developed societies” (5). What implications does this have on our increasingly digitally-oriented society? Does this shift power towards those who have access to and knowledge of certain types of technology, while potentially expanding the divide between those who simply don’t have access to these materials? On a somewhat-related personal note, this makes me think about the way that, as a designer, I’ve found myself in situations where I feel a bit disadvantaged because I’m not super comfortable with coding. So much of design is digital, so having knowledge of some sort of programming language is becoming more of an expectation than an added bonus.

2. In Ælfric’s preface, he states that “the work [of translation] is very dangerous to me or anyone to undertake, because I fear that if someone foolish reads this book, or hears it read, that someone might wish to think that one might live now under the new law just as the old fathers lived, when in the time before the old law was established, or just as people lived under the law of Moses.” This relates to the society depicted in Octavia Butler’s “Speech Sounds” as it calls into question the complications that come along with the lack of a standardized language system. In this hypothetical society, people are afflicted by various aphasias which inhibit the ability to produce or understand either written or spoken language, and in some cases, both. This forces people to use individualized sign systems and attempt to  infer what strangers are trying to communicate. Understandably, this often results in miscommunication which can at times be violent or fatal. The lack of a unified communication system forces everyone to rely on constant translation, which, as Ælfric suggested, can be dangerous if conducted improperly. Ælfric’s concerns were definitely different than the dangerous reality of translation in Butler’s writing, but both texts show that there’s a lot of responsibility that comes along with the act of translation.

3. On a somewhat different note, I found the section from _The Book_ to be really interesting, especially because I’ve previously studied the evolution of text in different contexts. In a graphic design history course I took a few years ago, we looked very closely at the way text has evolved through its various stages, from heavy clay tablets inscripted with cuneiform to early methods of typesetting and finally to the digital world of design. Though the subject matter was nearly identical to what we read in “The Book as Object,” the way we learned about it differed vastly for one main reason -- pictures. As the class was made up of design majors, the focus was placed more heavily on the visual depictions of these forms than the written descriptions. The lectures consisted entirely of verbal explanations and images shown on a slide projector, and there really wasn’t much reading assigned outside of class. The Book, on the other hand, has a far higher concentration of text than images, though the occasional image is included. As a result, I’m noticing myself thinking about the subject matter through a very different lens. Speaking generally, how does the form that information takes impact the way that it’s received? 

