# Reading Prep: CHAPTER THREE

#### Anna Smith

## Questions or Observations

1. Johannes Trithemius's arguments against printing in "In Praise of Scribes" were really interesting, especially when considering Gutenberg's relationship to the Church. I suppose this could have been part of the problem in Trithemius's eyes, as maybe he viewed Gutenberg's reliance on church funds to be opportunistic and disrespectful. That being said, I couldn't help but think that he put a lot of stock in how being a scribe is the ultimate holy profession. The claim that "he who recopies good and devout texts will not be disturbed by vain or impure thoughts, will not speak idle words, will not be stained by mad rumors" feels a bit bold, as does saying that one in support of printing "is trying to conceal his own sloth." This apprehension to embrace new technology reminds me of the ebook/physical book debate we've had, which was further supported when the printing press was compared to the advent of the Internet in Fry's video. There are benefits and drawbacks to any new technology, and the reluctance to adopt new developments is an age-old occurrence.

2. In "How Typeface Influences the Way We Read and Think," I agree wholeheartedly with the idea that Helvetica and Comic Sans represent opposite ends of the sans-serif spectrum. Helvetica is present in places that you don’t even think about: Toyota, Target, American Apparel, Jeep. GM. Motorola, the list of companies that utilize Helvetica in their brand identity goes on and on. I thought the "crytal goblet" notion that Borsuk reflected on summed this up well, by emphasizing that the content should be delivered by a vessel that doesn't compete with it. Comic Sans feels just as present in more casual settings such as elementary school handouts, small restaurant menus, and low-budget signage, but you never see Comic Sans without making a mental note that you've seen it. In a way, it supercedes the message that it's trying to convey, and this is generally negative. Other notoriously bad-yet-overused typefaces have made their way into pop culture, though. What came to mind as I was reading this article was SNL's skit pointing out that the logo for multi-billion dollar franchise _Avatar_ is, in fact, the word “Avatar” in all-caps Papyrus. This brings me to my question: are there certain instances where the typography itself should supercede the content that drives it? My instinct tells me that this is true in the case of logo design, but are there other situations where the typeface should speak louder than the type? 

3. I find it amazing that such a groundbreaking invention as Gutenberg's printing press was never drawn out in diagram form or at least rendered in an illustration. Given that this innovation marked the beginning of the Renaissance, you would think that there were ample artists available to document the structure of this machine. Could the reason for this be that people didn't predict that this development would be as important as it is today? Or perhaps was there was a more competitive reason that it was not ever diagrammed? Gutenberg did have the market cornered for a time, maybe he hoped to keep it this way. I found the press creation process in Fry's video to be really interesting, as so much of it relied on speculation and the gathering of minute clues that suggest how the press may have been set up. I feel like this is how much of our information about the past is handled, and it calls to mind the quipus that we've mentioned in the past. While we know what the printing press did but not how it looked, other past technologies are in the opposite situation, as we know what they look like but not how they were used.

