# Reading Prep: Sensation

#### Anna Smith

## Questions or Observations

1. Octave Uzanne’s “The End of Books” was interesting to read from our current historical vantage point because the "cylinders" described in the text are essentially what we would think of today as audiobooks. Though using phonograph cyinders to store and distribute audio seems archaic now, it's unlikely that Uzanne could have even conceptualized digitized audio. Today, we don't need a physical component for each audiobook we purchase, as they exist as bits of data which can be transmitted instantly. The only reason we view this as commonplace is because it's how our entire world works, so in 1894, then, phonograph tubes must have felt appropriately revolutionary. Regardless of the form of the media itself, though, Uzanne was on to an important idea, as evidenced by this quote by John Poole: "Either the books must go, or they must swallow us up." We still follow in this vein of thinking today, as we move increasingly toward the compact digital world.  
2. Sara Hendren's article on designing for disability made me think of issues that I encounter often at The Wilbur theater, where I work in the box office. We have a limited amount of seating that's considered "acessible" but once we've sold these sections, there's little we can do to accomodate additional disabled patrons. What's even more frustrating is that state laws about historical buildings preservation prevent us from installing certain technologies that would make it easier to accomodate patrons with disabilites (like elevators, for example). While it's rare that we can't come up with some sort of solution to accomodate patrons, it makes me wonder why so many barriers exist that can ultimately be chalked up to narrow-minded design. I think the idea of viewing all technologies as "assistive" in some manner is a constructive way to tackle design, as is "rethinking the default bodily experience." If everyday items were designed with accessibility already factored in, we wouldn't need to create multiple variations of objects that serve the same purpose.  
3. Piggybacking off of that previous thought, I feel like books are a media that able people often take for granted. "The Universal Page" and the "Touch this Page" exhibition give insight to the evolution of the book. I thought the line "Andrew’s fears about losing his visual relationship to books resembles the anxieties that sighted people have about the demise of print in the digital age" was particularly interesting, as it connects with many of our discussions on what a "book" actually _is_. Arguing that a "book" must consist of printed text bound in a codex is an inherently ableist view, as people with certain disabilities simply can't engage with these texts the way sighted people can. In these instances, reimagining the "book" in multisensory ways to make it more accessible is not only acceptable but necessary. The "book" as we know it is far from "universal," and if a fundamental form change is what it takes to make it more widely usable, I feel that this should be embraced rather than resisted.

