# Reading Prep: Assemblage

#### Anna Smith

## Questions or Observations

1. Pagan Kennedy's _Zine_ was a really fascinating read, as it deals with a desire to succeed as a writer in a commercial sense, contrasted by Pagan's journey rebelling against everything that's expected of traditional literature. She reflects that "When I read through the back issues of the 'zine, I'm confronted with what a superficial and self-promoting fool I often was; still, I did some of my best work because I was a fool and wasn't afraid to admit it" (Kennedy 173). In this class, we've talked so much about what a "book" _should be_, that I'm convinced "book" is an arbitrary term that can apply to whatever vessel you use to carry content. Kennedy seems to be very aware of the social connotation of a "book" and the ways that her work conflicts with these expectations, but the fact that she continued to forge ahead anyway and put out work that she believed in is really refreshing and inspiring. 
2. Though I don't have much experience making zines, they are a really cool media to me as they dance the line between literature and expressive art. From previous knowledge as well as what we read for this class, I know that zines often represent specific communities and countercultures, rebelling against traditional means of spreading information. The "Code of Ethics" piece states that "Given the ephemeral nature of zines, any zine may be a one- or few-of-a-kind item" which means that preservation is just as individualized. Zines traditionally aren't looked at as pieces with a very long shelf life, simply due to their DIY nature. Placing an emphasis on preservation is important as it doesn't only extend the life of the materials themselves, but of the ideas and communities that are reflected in these pieces. 
3. "The Book as Interface" connects with our exploration into zines and zine culture by unpacking the ways form and content are connected and disconnected. In a way, zines challenge the notion of the "crystal goblet" in that they often force readers to acknowledge multiple levels of media (page 15 of Pagan Kennedy's book, for example, relies on the reader's understanding that this is a magazine page which has been modified and placed in a different vessel from which it natively appeared). The erasure poetry we looked at further emphasizes this point, as readers are now faced with a poem emphasized on top of its own source text. Rather than being transparent vessels, these types of media force the reader to engage with the format in order to better grasp the content.

