# Reading Prep: CHAPTER SIX - Archive

#### Anna Smith

## Questions or Observations

1. I thought the line "The dictionary maker’s 'labor,' he wrote in his preface,'would find no end, since our English tongue daily changes habit'" was an interesting notion, and not untrue. Even today's English is fairly fluid, as old words are reinterpreted and used in different ways while new words are introduced it seems like every day. I can't imagine the difficulty involved with creating even as basic a dictionary as Cawdry's in this time, given the lack of standardization and resources. I don't really have a question to go along with this, but just an observation of how we take for granted the accessibility of language in our modern era.

2. I think understanding the history of the page is an important concept to understand, especially as I'm pursuing a career in graphic design. I've worked on a number of print projects in the past, and found myself constantly referring to other (other older) texts for inspiration. Jan Tschichold's works _Die Neue Typographie_ is one that I constantly refer to, as it blends traditional concepts of page layout with principles that still feel modern today. Bonnie Mak's comments on blank space really resonated with me, especially when she says "Blank space is crucial to the activity of reading, and especially silent reading, becauseit enhances the legibility and comprehensibility of the page." There is so much that goes unnoticed when one reads a page of text. Mak goes on to say "The page is an expressive space for text, space, and image; it is a cultural artefact; itis a technological device. But it is also all of these at once." If this is the case, how does the experience of a modern page compare to, say, the printed newspapers that we looked at in class a few weeks ago? If one is more successful than the other, why is that?

3. In Ellen Cushman's writing on the Cherokee Syllabary, I thought that the distinction between _perseverence_ and _preservation_ was particularly interesting. She states, "The term _perseverance_ distinguishes ongoing acts of maintainingpeoplehood and is distinct from cultural or linguistic preservation. Perseverance acknowledges and accommodates change, while preservation withdraws an object from its context to prevent its change." Preserving culture involves freezing a practice or artifact in time, with no regard for cultural growth and change. We have seen this phenomenon many times over the course of our class, from ancient philosophers' anxieties regarding writing, to scribes disdain for print, and even today in modern apprehension toward digital media. How can this attitude be harmful or prevent necessary progress? 

